(registered 2026-09-22, last updated 2026-09-22)

Media type name: application

Media subtype name: vnd.godot.project.text

Required parameters: N/A

Optional parameters: N/A

Encoding considerations: binary

The text-based format is usually 8-bit text, but MAY have lines longer than 998 octets, which qualifies as binary per RFC 2045 section 2.8.

Security considerations: Godot project files may contain arbitrarily many levels of nested content. The types of nested content include executable GDScript code, or possibly other executable content. It is trivial to craft a malicious file which can be loaded by Godot and escape into the operating system. Therefore, sandboxing is required when loading untrusted files.

Godot project files do not require privacy or integrity services. If integrity services are required, they must be provided externally, i.e. the format does not provide any integrity services.

Godot project files are based on the INI-style Godot ConfigFile format as the common structure, which also underlies most Godot formats. This has the same security considerations generally, with the same ability to contain arbitrary executable content.

Godot project files may link to other Godot files, such as Godot scenes, Godot resources, GDScript files, GDShader files, and more. This is done through Godot referencing syntaxes, such as project-relative path, project-wide unique ID, or class name.

Interoperability considerations: N/A

Published specification: https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/classes/class_configfile.html

Applications which use this media: Godot Engine, an open source 2D and 3D game engine.

Fragment identifier considerations: N/A

Restrictions on usage: Godot project files are expected to have limited use outside of Godot Engine, and therefore other software is not encouraged to implement support for them.

Additional information:

1. Deprecated alias names for this type: application/x-godot-project
2. Magic number(s): ECFG for project.binary only
3. File extension(s):project.godot (whole filename match)
4. Macintosh file type code: N/A
5. Object Identifiers: N/A

General Comments: The primary purpose of registering Godot-specific formats is to define them, providing documentation of their characteristics to non-Godot software, and provide a stable vendor-scoped MIME type going forward, that being `application/vnd.godot.project` in this case. However, there is no expectation of other software adopting Godot-specific formats or adding support for loading them.

Person to contact for further information:

1. Name: Godot IANA Inbox
2. Email: iana&godotengine.org

Intended usage: LIMITED USE

Godot project files are expected to have limited use outside of Godot Engine, and therefore other software is not encouraged to implement support for them.

Author/Change controller: Godot Foundation
