(last updated 2007-07-11)

LANGUAGE SUBTAG REGISTRATION FORM
1. Name of requester: Han Steenwijk
2. E-mail address of requester: han.steenwijk @ unipd.it
3. Record Requested:

Type: variant
Subtag: biske
Description: The San Giorgio dialect of Resian
Description: The Bila dialect of Resian
Prefix: sl-rozaj
Comments: The dialect of San Giorgio/Bila is one of the four major
local dialects of Resian

4. Intended meaning of the subtag: The local variety of Resian as
spoken in San Giorgio/Bila
5. Reference to published description of the language (book or
article):
1. Jan I.N. Baudouin de Courtenay - Opyt fonetiki rez'janskich
govorov, Varsava - Peterburg: Vende - Kozancikov, 1875.
2. Jan I.N. Baudouin de Courtenay - Materialien zur suedslavischen
Dialektologie und Ethnographie: 1. Resianische Texte, St.
Petersburg: Imperatorskaja Akademija nauk, 1895.
3. Tine Logar - "Rezijanski dialekt: glasoslovna skica", in: VIII.
seminar slovenskega jezika, literature in kulture, Ljubljana:
Univerza v Ljubljani, Filozofska fakulteta, Oddelek za slovanske
jezike in knjizevnosti, 1972.
4. Han Steenwijk - The Slovene Dialect of Resian: San Giorgio (=
Studies in Slavic and General Linguistics, vol. 18),
Amsterdam-Atlanta: RODOPI, 1992.
5. "Parabula uot itoga sinu prodiga", in: Franco Riva - Tradizioni
popolari venete secondo i documenti dell'inchiesta del Regno Italico
(1811) (= Memorie: Classe di Scienze Morali, Lettere ed Arti, vol.
34, part 2), Venezia: Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti,
1966, pp. 84-85.
6. Any other relevant information:
1. The first description line makes reference to the Italian
toponym, the second one to the Slovene toponym.
2. The former three bibliographical items describe the San Giorgio
dialect as opposed to other Resian local dialects, whereas the the
fourth item is a monograph dedicated to the San Giorgio dialect. The
fifth item represents the oldest known text written in this local
dialect.
3. Contemporary authors expressing themselves in the San Giorgio
dialect are: Gilberto Barbarino, Giovanni Clemente, Dorina Di
Lenardo, Maria Di Lenardo, Antonio Longhino.


(file created 2007-07-11)