(last updated 2009-10-05)

LANGUAGE SUBTAG REGISTRATION FORM

1. Name of requester: Frank Bennett
2. E-mail address of requester: bennett at law.nagoya-u.ac.jp
3. Record Requested:

Type: variant
Subtag: hepburn
Description: Hepburn romanization
Prefix: ja-Latn

4. Intended meaning of the subtag:

Indicates that the target content is Japanese text, romanized using
a method derived from that first devised by the Society for the
Romanization of the Japanese Alphabet in 1885, and popularized
through the publication of a Japanese dictionary by J.C. Hepburn
in 1886.

The common characteristic of Hepburn romanization in its many
variants, apart from the name, is an emphasis on approximating
Japanese _pronunciation_ using English or European spelling
conventions. Hepburn romanization does not attempt to parallel
or transcribe the Japanese logographic scripts (hiragana or
katakana).

5. Reference to published description of the language (book or article):

Primary
J.C.Hepburn, A Japanese-English and English-Japanese
Dictionary, 3rd ed., 1886.
http://www.halcat.com/roomazi/doc/hep3.html

Revised Hepburn: ALA-LC Romanization Tables (available for
download)
http://www.loc.gov/catdir/cpso/roman.html

Secondary
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hepburn_romanization
http://www.hadamitzky.de/english/lp_romanization_sys.htm
http://www.kanji.org/cjk/samples/jnamevar.htm

6. Any other relevant information:

One of the reasons for the large variety and lack of discipline in
Japanese romanization schemes is the simplicity of Japanese
phonetics. For a given Japanese word, there will be several more
or less obvious ways of transliterating it into Latin characters.
All such schemes lose such a large amount of information when
compared with the original text that it is difficult to make a
persuasive argument that one scheme is significantly better than
another.

The problem of information loss is particularly severe in the case
of Japanese. Whereas in Chinese, the Han characters each have
particular, fixed pronunciations, in Japanese these often have
multiple readings. This, together with a limited syllabary,
results in a crowded namespace with many homonyms. The result is
an emphasis on visual form in much discourse; people in
conversation can often be heard to describe the Han characters of
particular words to one another for clarity (i.e. "kome-hen no
seikou", meaning "the word pronounced 'seikou' that starts with a
character containing the 'rice' radical").

The extremely loose connection between the roman transliterated
form of a text and its original form has meant that romanized
script is used only for very short phrases, where the intended
meaning is often clear from the context, or in combination with
a translation (as in many academic citation systems), where the
translation provides a hint of the meaning of the transliterated
phrase. In both cases, variances in the transliteration do not
seriously impede readability, and therefore, both by intention
and by accident, they have proliferated.

By the same token, for many tagging purposes, identifying text as
"Hepburn romanization" will be sufficient, and more precise
description would be counter-productive (because most members of
the population are indifferent to the small differences between
the variants). If for particular purposes a need arises to tag
specific, well-defined subvariants of Hepburn, they can be added
in future.

(file created 2009-10-05)