FOR ARCHIVING: Registration form for 'ijekavsk'

---

LANGUAGE SUBTAG REGISTRATION FORM

1. Name of requester: Goran Rakic

2. E-mail address of requester: grakic at devbase.net

3. Record Requested:

Type: variant
Subtag: ijekavsk
Description: Serbian with Ijekavian pronunciation
Prefix: sr
Prefix: sr-Latn
Prefix: sr-Cyrl

4. Intended meaning of the subtag:
The Serbian standard allows two pronunciation variants in some words:
the Ekavian (which has an e in the stem of these words) and Ijekavian
(which has ije, je, or i instead of the e in Ekavian). The pronunciation
difference is reflected in the written language.

5. Reference to published description of the language (book or article):

-- Pesikan M - Pravopis srpskoga jezika: Ekavsko skolsko izdanje -
Matica Srpska, Novi Sad 2006. ISBN 987-86-17-15457-6
(Translated citation) "Particularly the Serbo-Croatian language
expression, or the Serbian language, is based on the duality of the
literary dialects, that is on ekavian and ijekavian pronounciation,..."
p. 65

-- Sipka M - Pravopisni recnik srpskog jezika: sa pravopisno-gramatickim
savetnikom - Prometej, Novi Sad 2012. ISBN 978-86-515-0720-8
(Translated citation) "As reflexes of the Old Slavonic phoneme Yat in
the Serbian standard language there are two pronounciations: Ekavian
(eastern) and Ijekavian (western)." p. 1350

-- Vitas D, et al - An overview of resources and basic tools for the
processing of Serbian written texts - First workshop on Balkan Languages
and Resources. 2003. p. 1-8.
"Moreover, the difference that exist between different variants (Ekavian
and Ijekavian) of the standard language are recorded in written texts.
For instance, the Serbian equivalents of the English words child and
girl have two standard forms of the nominative singulars: dete, devojka
(Ekavian) and dijete, dijevojka (Ijekavian)."
Online copy:
http://www.rgf.bg.ac.rs/LicnePrezentacije/ivan_obradovic/Radovi/IWBLRT_2003.pdf

6. Any other relevant information:

This new language variant is proposed together with the new ekavsk
variant subtag for the Serbian with Ekavian pronunciation following the
discussion "New variant subtags for Serbian language" from November 2013
on ietf-languages at iana.org mailing list. [1]
Two new language variants are defined as equals and mutually exclusive
with a common language prefix.
With spell checking (or other natural language processing tools) it is
important to specify the intended pronunciation variant of the written
text for the tool to give correct results following this variant.
Names for the new variant subtags are selected to follow the required
length constrains and to look symetrical to each other. In scholarly
articles name Ijekavian is more frequently used than the alternative
name Iyekavian. The abbreviation is created by ommiting ending vocales,
as in the naming of script tags (eg. Latin -> Latn).

[1]
http://www.alvestrand.no/pipermail/ietf-languages/2013-November/011932.html
