(last updated 2007-07-11)

LANGUAGE SUBTAG REGISTRATION FORM
1. Name of requester: Han Steenwijk
2. E-mail address of requester: han.steenwijk @ unipd.it
3. Record Requested:

Type: variant
Subtag: solba
Description: The Stolvizza dialect of Resian
Description: The Solbica dialect of Resian
Prefix: sl-rozaj
Comments: The dialect of Stolvizza/Solbica is one of the four major
local dialects of Resian

4. Intended meaning of the subtag: The local variety of Resian as
spoken in Stolvizza/Solbica
5. Reference to published description of the language (book or
article):
1. Jan I.N. Baudouin de Courtenay - Opyt fonetiki rez'janskich
govorov, Varsava - Peterburg: Vende - Kozancikov, 1875.
2. Jan I.N. Baudouin de Courtenay - Materialien zur suedslavischen
Dialektologie und Ethnographie: 1. Resianische Texte, St.
Petersburg: Imperatorskaja Akademija nauk, 1895.
3. Tine Logar - "Rezijanski dialekt: glasoslovna skica", in: VIII.
seminar slovenskega jezika, literature in kulture, Ljubljana:
Univerza v Ljubljani, Filozofska fakulteta, Oddelek za slovanske
jezike in knjizevnosti, 1972.
4. Tine Logar - "Solbica (Stolvizza; OLA 1)" in: Fonoloski opisi
srpskohrvatskih/hrvatskosrpskih, slovenackih i makedonskih govora
obuhvacenih opsteslovenskim lingvisticnim atlasom, Sarajevo:
Akademija nauka i umjetnosti Bosne i Hercegovine, 1981, pp. 35-40.
5. "Raccolta di alcuni vocaboli della Lingua dei Resiani ...", in:
Milko Maticetov & Gaetano Perusini - "Un dizionaretto e due
paternoster resiani inediti", Ricerche Slavistiche 4, 1955-56, pp.
84-86.
6. Any other relevant information:
1. The first description line makes reference to the Italian
toponym, the second one to the Slovene toponym.
2. The former three bibliographical items describe the Stolvizza
dialect as opposed to other Resian local dialects, whereas the
fourth item contains the phonology of the Stolvizza dialect. The
fifth item represents the oldest known text written in this local
dialect, dating from 1818.
3. Contemporary authors expressing themselves in the Stolvizza
dialect are: Italico Brida, Luigia Negro, Catia Quaglia, Renato
Quaglia.


(file created 2007-07-11)