   LANGUAGE SUBTAG REGISTRATION FORM
   1. Name of requester: Philip Newton
   2. E-mail address of requester: philip.newton at pobox.com
   3. Record Requested:

      Type: variant
      Subtag: vallader
      Description: Vallader idiom of Romansh
      Prefix: rm
      Comments: Vallader is one of the five traditional written
standards or "idioms" of the Romansh language.

   4. Intended meaning of the subtag:

        The Vallader written standard of the Romansh language,
especially as used to represent the dialects of the Lower Engadine and
as used traditionally as the written standard in the Val Müstair; or
the spoken dialects of the Lower Engadine typically represented in
writing by this standard.

   5. Reference to published description
      of the language (book or article):

        -- Jachen Curdin Arquint, Vierv ladin, Grammatica elementara
dal rumantsch d’Engiadina bassa,  Lia Rumantscha 1964.

        -- Gian Paul Ganzoni, Grammatica Ladina, Grammatica
sistematica dal rumantsch d’Engiadina Bassa per scolars e creschütsd
da lingua rumantscha e francesa, Uniun dals Grischs e Lia Rumantscha,
1983.

        -- Dicziunari – Wörterbuch vallader – tudais-ch /tudais-ch –
vallader, Lehrmittelverlag des Kantons Graubünden, Chur 2003.

   6. Any other relevant information:

        The dialect of the Val Müstair does not have a standardised
written form. Even though the dialects of Romansh spoken there
exhibits some differences from the dialect of the Lower Engadine, it
was the Vallader written standard, derived from (sub)dialects of the
Lower Engadine, that was traditionally used in the Val Müstair, and
that was taught in schools there.

        Recently, the Rumantsch Grischun supraregional standard has
started to be used in schools in Val Müstair. They were among the
first school districts to make use of Rumantsch Grischun in their
instruction; perhaps because the inhabitants were already accustomed
to making use of a written standard that did not correspond as well to
their spoken dialects.

        Texts written in the Vallader standard, whether by a Lower
Engadine writer or one from the Val Müstair, can be tagged with
rm-vallader. In the opinion of the submitter, the spoken varieties of
the Lower Engadine can also appropriately be tagged rm-vallder;
however, spoken varieties of the Val Müstair are better tagged
rm-jauer (q.v.).
